GDAP Documentation (beta APIs) (#16193)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/api/tenantrelationship-post-delegatedadminrelationships.md

> ---

Author: I am not clear on this suggestion. Did you mean "tenantrelationship-" prefix?

> ---

Reviewer: I'm confused about the pattern used for the file names. We just need to make them consistent. In some cases, the verb (get/list/post) are mentioned at the end and in some as a prefix. All I'm suggesting is making them consistent.

# Create delegatedAdminRelationship
Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Create a new [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object.

## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

|Permission type|Permissions (from least to most privileged)|
|:---|:---|
|Delegated (work or school account)| DelegatedAdminRelationship.ReadWrite.All |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account)| Not supported. |
|Application| Not supported. |

## HTTP request

<!-- {
  "blockType": "ignored"
}
-->
``` http
POST /tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships
```

## Request headers
|Name|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|Bearer {token}. Required.|
|Content-Type|application/json. Required.|

## Request body
In the request body, supply a JSON representation of the [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object.

You can specify the following properties when creating a **delegatedAdminRelationship**.

|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|

> |displayName|String|The display name of the relationship. This is primarily meant for ease of identification. This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and cannot be changed by the caller once the relationship is in the 'approvalPending' status or beyond. Must be unique across all relationships from the partner for the customer.|

Reviewer: Please change: "This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and cannot be changed by the caller once the relationship is in the 'approvalPending' status or beyond." to "This cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond."

> |duration|Duration|The duration (ISO 8601) of the relationship. This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond. Must be a value between P1D and P2Y inclusive.|

Reviewer: The description needs to be fixed. Please change: "This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond." to "This cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond."

> |customer|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship. This is set either by the partner during relationship creation, or by the system after customer approval of the relationship (if not set at the time of creation), and can neither be changed by the customer nor by the partner once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond.|

Reviewer: Please change: "can neither be changed by the customer nor by the partner once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond." to "cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond."

|customer|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship. This is set either by the partner during relationship creation, or by the system after customer approval of the relationship (if not set at the time of creation), and can neither be changed by the customer nor by the partner once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond.|
|accessDetails|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminAccessDetails](../resources/delegatedadminaccessdetails.md)|The access details of the relationship.|

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `201 Created` response code and a [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object in the response body.

## Examples

### Request
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "create_delegatedadminrelationship_from_"
}
-->
``` http
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships
Authorization: Bearer {token}
Content-Type: application/json

> 

Reviewer 2: Location header missing

Reviewer: The Location header would be in the response. But good catch!

## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

|Permission type|Permissions (from least to most privileged)|
|:---|:---|
|Delegated (work or school account)| DelegatedAdminRelationship.ReadWrite.All |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account)| Not supported. |
|Application| Not supported. |

## HTTP request

<!-- {
  "blockType": "ignored"
}
-->
``` http
POST /tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships
```

## Request headers
|Name|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|Bearer {token}. Required.|
|Content-Type|application/json. Required.|

## Request body
In the request body, supply a JSON representation of the [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object.

You can specify the following properties when creating a **delegatedAdminRelationship**.

|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|accessDetails|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminAccessDetails](../resources/delegatedadminaccessdetails.md)|The access details of the relationship.|

> |customer|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship. This is set either by the partner during relationship creation, or by the system after customer approval of the relationship (if not set at the time of creation), and cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|customer|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship.|
```

> |displayName|String|The display name of the relationship. This is primarily meant for ease of identification. This cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond. Must be unique across all relationships from the partner for the customer.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|displayName|String|The display name of the relationship. This is primarily meant for ease of identification. Must be unique across *all* delegated admin relationships of the partner.|
```

> |duration|Duration|The duration (ISO 8601) of the relationship. This cannot be changed once the relationship is in the "approvalPending" status or beyond. Must be a value between P1D and P2Y inclusive.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|duration|Duration|The duration (ISO 8601) of the relationship. Must be a value between P1D and P2Y inclusive.|
```

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `201 Created` response code and a [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object in the response body.

## Examples

### Request
<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "create_delegatedadminrelationship_from_"
}
-->
``` http
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships
Authorization: Bearer {token}
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "displayName": "Contoso admin relationship",
  "duration": "P730D",
  "customer": {
    "tenantId": "4b827261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163",
    "displayName": "Contoso subsidiary Inc"
  },
  "accessDetails": {
    "unifiedRoles": [
      {
        "roleDefinitionId": "29232cdf-9323-42fd-ade2-1d097af3e4de"
      },
      {
        "roleDefinitionId": "3a2c62db-5318-420d-8d74-23affee5d9d5"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Response
>**Note:** The response object shown here might be shortened for readability.
<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationship"
}
-->
``` http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json

> Location: https://traf-pcsvcadmin-prod.trafficmanager.net/CustomerServiceAdminApi/Web/v1/granularAdminRelationships/5d027261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163-8777b240-c6f0-4469-9e98-a3205431b836

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Location: https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships/5d027261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163-8777b240-c6f0-4469-9e98-a3205431b836
```

|:---|:---|
|Delegated (work or school account)| DelegatedAdminRelationship.ReadWrite.All |
|Delegated (personal Microsoft account)| Not supported. |
|Application| Not supported. |

## HTTP request

<!-- {
  "blockType": "ignored"
}
-->
``` http
POST /tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships
```

## Request headers
|Name|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Authorization|Bearer {token}. Required.|
|Content-Type|application/json. Required.|

## Request body
In the request body, supply a JSON representation of the [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object.

You can specify the following properties when creating a **delegatedAdminRelationship**.

|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|accessDetails|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminAccessDetails](../resources/delegatedadminaccessdetails.md)|The identifiers of the administrative roles that the partner requests or has access to in the customer tenant. Required.|
|customer|[microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The display name and unique identifier of the customer of the relationship. Optional.|

> |displayName|String|The display name of the relationship used for ease of identification. Must be unique across *all* delegated admin relationships of the partner.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|displayName|String|The display name of the relationship used for ease of identification. Must be unique across *all* delegated admin relationships of the partner. Required.|
```

> |duration|Duration|The duration of the relationship in ISO 8601 format. Must be a value between `P1D` and `P2Y` inclusive.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|duration|Duration|The duration of the relationship in ISO 8601 format. Must be a value between `P1D` and `P2Y` inclusive. Required.|
```

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `201 Created` response code and a [delegatedAdminRelationship](../resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md) object in the response body.

> The response contains a **Location** header which contains a URL to the long-running operation for the status of the delegated admin relationship request. Each **delegatedAdminRelationship** object contains an **@odata.etag** property as per RFC2616.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains a **Location** header which contains a URL to the created delegated admin relationship. Each **delegatedAdminRelationship** object contains an **@odata.etag** property as per RFC2616.
```

>**Note:** The response object shown here might be shortened for readability.
<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationship"
}
-->
``` http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
Location: https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/tenantRelationships/delegatedAdminRelationships/5d027261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163-8777b240-c6f0-4469-9e98-a3205431b836

{
  "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.delegatedAdminRelationship",
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/tenantRelationships/$metadata#delegatedAdminRelationships",
  "@odata.etag": "W/\"JyIxODAwZTY4My0wMDAwLTAyMDAtMDAwMC02MTU0OWFmMDAwMDAiJw==\"",
  "id": "5d027261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163-8777b240-c6f0-4469-9e98-a3205431b836",
  "displayName": "Contoso admin relationship",
  "duration": "P730D",
  "customer": {
    "tenantId": "4b827261-d21f-4aa9-b7db-7fa1f56fb163",
    "displayName": "Contoso subsidiary Inc"
  },
  "accessDetails": {
    "unifiedRoles": [
      {
        "roleDefinitionId": "29232cdf-9323-42fd-ade2-1d097af3e4de"
      },
      {
        "roleDefinitionId": "3a2c62db-5318-420d-8d74-23affee5d9d5"
      }
    ]
  },

>   "status": "approvalPending",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "status": "created",
```
